---
title: Materializing Choreography
layout: post
ref: materializing
lang: en
---

I am a Japanese media artist residing in Montreal, Canada with a background in engineering. I have created bizarre interactive installations such as face projection mapping selected to IVRC 2014 (Japan) and Laval Virtual 2015 (France). These projects involve motion sensors (e.g., Microsoft Kinect) and are focused on how to use tracked body movements for entertainment or art. I always had an idea to augment a body part that people rarely do, and therefore I chose face projection (although there are some great works already exist, for example, by [Daito Manabe and Zach Lieberman]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=na7FU-VTWN8 ); [Nobumichi Asai]( https://vimeo.com/103425574 )). However, as I learned ideas behind contemporary dance at a [Choreographic Coding Lab]( http://choreographiccoding.org/ ) and am involved in the neuroscience community through [NeuroTechX]( http://neurotechx.com/ ), I had a desire to tackle with something more abstract: ideas behind movements. This is the reason why I launched *Tangible Choreography*, and the aim is to materialize choreographic ideas by technologies in addition to a human body. As I will describe later in this series, the project will contribute to choreographers, dancers, engineers, computer scientists, and audiences.

Contemporary dance and contemporary art involves questions, ideas, and most importantly, communication between performers and audiences. In that sense, these ideas may not be expressed explicitly in the movement or appearance. Also a piece can be homage or accompanies a story behind it, as any other kinds of art do, which may not be explained during the performance. This is a barrier to appreciate a piece for those who are expecting that the piece is self-contained.

On the other hand, media art is a form of art, often interactive for audiences and intuitive to understand, using technologies, such as computers, microcontrollers, robots and sensors including cameras and bio/neuro sensors. It does not only provide audiovisual experiences but can employ physical materials to touch or to be touched. If contemporary dance [art] is about questions and relationships, I am sure that media art can help communication between a performer and an audience through forms or modalities that are not limited to audio and visual. I must note that I am not inventing a telepathy-like device that explicitly delivers what performers are thinking to audiences. However, my goal is to encourage audiences to understand ideas in an implicit way that does not interrupt the performance.
